## Shoplisting 3

Welcome to the documentation for Shoplisting 3: the virtual cookbook where *you*

### Table of Contents

[TOC]

## Recipes

The main data model in Shoplisting is a recipe, and they feed into every major actions in the system. Recipes can be viewed, created, and edited in the [Recipe View](/admin/recipe).

The recipe editor can search for existing ingredients and create new ones, and this is the intended way for most ingredients to be created. This documentation will introduce recipes' fields and other data models alongside the actions which use them.

## Shopping Lists

Shopping list generation is available in the [Shopping List View](/admin/shoppinglistview/). The top of the view allows recipes to be added via CSV scans of barcodes (file upload or raw text), or by searching the existing recipes. Once added, recipes can be reordered and assigned dates. Recipes that are assigned to a shopping list with dates are *exclusive*, and only one scheduled meal may exist per day.
A shopping list may also be generated without dates if needed, which will not interfere with the calendar. Note that deleting a shopping list will delete all associated meals, clearing scheduled meals.

If you wish to preview the placement of ingredients and nesting of categories, the [Shopping List Test](/api/slist/test) API endpoint will render a shopping list with no recipes and every ingredient in the database.

### Associated Data

**[Recipe](/admin/recipe)**

* Name
* Note - displays below the recipe on the schedule, intended for reminders of tasks associated with prep or shopping
* Steps - display an instruction, and each can have items associated with it
* Items - may have amounts/units, and has an Ingredient associated with it

**[Ingredient](/admin/ingredient/)**

* Name
* Category - ingredients' associated categories are used to organize the shopping list

**[Category](/admin/category/)**

* Name
* Parent - each category is organized under its parent in the list
* Display - a flag used to decide whether items in a category display on the list by default
    * SHOW - displays ingredients
    * HIDE - does not display ingredients
    * INHERIT - The default: checks its parent's value. E.g. if a child category is INHERIT and a parent is HIDE, both will be hidden. The list itself is SHOW, so the default of all categories set to INHERIT will be to SHOW.

**Single Items**

Added on the [Landing Page](/admin). These are connected to an ingredient, defining what will show on the shopping list. Single items override the Display settings, and will always show, regardless of category settings.

---

## Recipe Cards

Card SVG generation is done on the [Card View](/admin/cardbatchview/). The view offers the option to generate cards for all recipes that require it, or to generate cards for a list of chosen recipes (which may be repeated, e.g. to generate a page of the same card.) Below the generation options is the list of stored SVGs. Each has options to download, affirm, or delete, or to select multiple and do the same operations in batch.

Shoplisting is currently configured to use the typeface `{svg/typeface/family}` for SVG generation. If you require the font file for printing, it can be downloaded [here](/static/{svg/typeface/ttfpath}).

### Affirming Cards

Affirming a page of cards indicates to Shoplisting that those cards as generated are in circulation and should not be autogenerated unless a change is made to the recipe that alters the card. SVGs need to be affirmed after printing to avoid massive batches of autogenerated cards. SVGs *may* be freely deleted after affirming them, this doesn't impact the affirmation.

### Associated Data

Note: changing **any** of the data used to generate the card will alter its card signature and prompt Shoplisting to offer it as a card that needs a new printing. For example, if you change the color of a tag, every card that uses that tag will want to be printed. If you want to get around this and don't want reprints, you can make the change, generate SVGs, and then affirm them, provided you have nothing that needs printing prior to the change.

**[Recipe](/admin/recipe)**

* Name
* Bottom/Top Note - two fields that render on the card above and below the name
* Datamatrix ID - A hidden, autogenerated field derived from the name of the recipe used for the barcode on the card. It attempts to be reasonably human readable to make scanning easier.

**[Tag](/admin/tag)**

* Name
* Position - which corner of the card the tag is in
* Color

**Card Signature**

A value derived from the above, used to determine whether a card has been changed since its last printing, and stored when a page of cards is affirmed.

---

## Single Items

Added on the [Landing Page](/admin), single items are ingredients scheduled to be placed on the next generated shopping list. They ignore category display settings and will show up even if in a category that would normally hide them. The landing page allows deleting pending single items, e.g. if one has been purchased in between generated shopping lists. 

---

## Recipe Printout

On the [Recipe View](/admin/recipe), on each row, there are edit, delete, and print commands for each recipe. The print command renders the full instructions of the recipe in a printer-friendly format, which aims to be single page for most recipes.

For the best appearance, you may wish to disable `Print Headers and Footers` and enable `Print Backgrounds` in the browser print dialogue.

### Associated Data

**[Recipe](/admin/recipe)**

* Name
* Header Data
    * Header Left/Middle/Right - these three form a one-line header, which is omitted if all are blank
    * Header Description - a longer form description which only shows if the field is not blank; both this and the three-part header can be present 
* Steps
    * Instruction
    * Items - steps without items work fine, they're just a loose instruction
* Items
    * amount/unit - displayed alongside the ingredient, omitted if blank
    * [Ingredient](/admin/ingredient/) - from which the recipe gets the name of the item

---

## Server Administration

This describes stuff about doing things to the server.

### Config

This is a stub for the config section???

### API

This is about the API.
